[Music]
the large blue was once extinct in
Britain but it relies on farm animals in
a way so bizarre you couldn't make it up
meadow ants nesting in the grass may
irritate the adults but are an unlikely
asset for their caterpillars
that's because large blues have a rather
interesting approach to parental care
their young are adopted by ants
the caterpillar mimics the sound and
smell of the ants own young and mistaken
for a mislaid ant larva is taken back to
the nest by the foraging ant workers but
it doesn't repay the favor
once underground the caterpillar leads a
predatory life eating the ants own
larvae
until one day it's ready to change into
a pupa and eventually emerges as one of
Britain's rarest butterflies ants are
vital to the butterfly but if the grass
is too long they move out
so without sheep to keep the grass short
they'd be no ants and without the ants
the large bloom would be lost
[Music]
but this place is a nature reserve and
we can't turn the entire countryside
into one of those but in the long term
we will have to produce foods
sustainably and government schemes are
now encouraging farmers to restore
intensively farmed land for wildlife
farmland that encourages butterflies as
a place of flowering meadows and field
margins buzzing with life butterflies
can bring back the wildlife rich
countryside we adore but unless these
oases are joined up the butterflies
trapped here will always be at risk
you